# ecology proposals
where / who / what / why

**Canarsie, Brooklyn**
- Canarsie/Rockaway Pkwy (L)
- On the other end of the L Train
- The L Train of the New York City Subway remains in critical condition years since Hurricane Sandy caused damage to its facilities. Multiple plans to repair the line have been proposed over the years, including partial/full shutdown of the line. Most often, the debates of these plans, and their impact on residents, businesses, and the communities, focus more on the western, Manhattan part of the line (14th Street), as well as neighborhoods closer to the 14th Street tunnel, whereas transit demands of residents further down the line were sometimes ignored. This project would like to survey the neighborhood at the eastern end of the line (Canarsie/Rockaway). In particular, this project would like to document/reconstruct ways the community’s transit demands were/are left out in the decision-making process, as well as damages they have caused to the community.

**Flushing, Queens**
- Flushing Chinatown
- Sex workers in the ethnic enclave
- The Chinatown in Flushing, Queens is now the largest Chinese ethnic enclave in New York City. Since 2019, there have been reports and discussion regarding prostitution in this Chinatown. In this case, sex workers, as a marginalized group, face a multitude of systemic problems, from the legality of their job and immigration status, and the possible denial of access to social services as a result, to the eminent threat of selective policing, which are stacked on top of existing issues in the enclave, from communication out of difference in languages to the neighborhood’s non-integration in the city. This project hopes to discover and document the ways in which the conditions and needs of this group are ignored or acted up by other groups in the community. 

**East River**
- Pollution
- Unlike its western counterpart, which has always been a major waterway, East River has been used instead as an outlet for the city’s sewage. This has caused extensive damage to the ecosystem along the river, as well as the quality of life of residents living along it (northern Brooklyn/Queens, along the shore). This project would like explore the asymmetry in power of different groups along the pollution chain (e.g. who caused the pollution versus who are impacted by it) and their interactions.
